                       Situation Report No. 34
                       Earthquakes in Venezuela
                       27 August 2026
                       Time: 5:00 p.m.


  Highlights
 Nearly 364,000 people affected by the earthquakes have accessed
  humanitarian assistance and essential services through a coordinated
  multi-sector response involving humanitarian organizations, United Nations
                                                                                            6,509
                                                                                       People
  agencies, communities, and national and local authorities.
                                                                                        dead
 As of 24 August, authorities reported 6,509 deaths.
 The United Nations system and its partner organizations continue scaling up
  the multisectoral response to the emergency to address the needs of 1.3 million people affected by
  the earthquakes over the next six months.

  Situation overview
  Venezuela continues to face the
  consequences of the two major
  earthquakes (magnitudes 7.2 and 7.5)
  that struck the north-central region of
  the country on 24 June at 18:00 local
  time, causing significant humanitarian
  impacts and damage to infrastructure.
  The first earthquake, measuring 7.2,
  was centered along the San Felipe–
  Yumare–Montalbán                     axis
  (Yaracuy/Carabobo). According to a
  recent update from the United States
  Geological Survey (USGS), the second
  earthquake, measuring 7.5, had its
  epicenter 17 kilometers west of Catia
  La Mar, off the coast of La Guaira state.

  As of 24 August, authorities reported
  6,509 deaths from the earthquakes. They also reported that 60,785 homes were evaluated, out of which
  11,001 are at high risk. According to national authorities, 28.61 per cent of the total rubble has been
  cleared. A preliminary assessment by the United Nations Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNDRR)
  estimates direct damage to housing and infrastructure at approximately US$37 billion, while preliminary
  estimates from UNDP place direct physical damages at US$6.7 billion, equivalent to 6 per cent of GDP.

  Two months after the earthquakes, the humanitarian response continues to expand across the affected
  states. As of 26 August, nearly 364,000 people (54 per cent women and girls) had access to essential
  services and humanitarian assistance through the joint efforts of communities, humanitarian organizations,
  United Nations entities, donor partners, and national and local authorities.

  Government Measures
     As part of measures to support families who lost their primary residence, authorities
      announced a financing and subsidy scheme for the purchase of homes on the secondary
      housing market, with support from the national banking sector and the “Venezuela Renace”
      fund. The mechanism provides subsidies of up to 80 per cent for homes valued at up to US$70,000,
      and 50 per cent for homes valued between US$70,000 and US$100,000. The remaining balance
      will be covered through loans with repayment terms of up to 25 years.




  United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA)
  www.unocha.org
OCHA | 2

   The Ministry of Education reported that over 900 education facilities sustained damage, including 11
    complete collapses and 89 with severe structural damage. To guarantee the safe and timely
    resumption of academic activities for children and adolescents, students from affected institutions
    will be relocated to alternative educational facilities and national authorities are accelerating efforts
    to clear 67 schools currently functioning as transitional camps.
   According to the latest official report of 24 August, authorities have delivered 335 homes to affected
    families.
   A psychological support hotline for affected people remains available: 0800-AYUDA-01.

Humanitarian Response Reach
   As of 26 August, 363,900 people affected by the earthquakes (54 per cent women and girls)
    had accessed essential services and humanitarian assistance through a coordinated
    response involving communities, United Nations entities, humanitarian organizations,
    authorities, and donors. Implemented by at least 107 organizations, the response included more
    than 24,000 activities in 15 states. More than 90 per cent of the people reached are concentrated in
    the seven directly affected states, particularly La Guaira, Miranda, the Capital District, Aragua,
    Carabobo, Falcón, and Yaracuy. Humanitarian action included activities in food security; water,
    sanitation and hygiene (WASH); health; shelter; nutrition; protection, including child protection and
    gender-based violence (GBV) response; and education.
   For more information on the scope of the humanitarian response, please refer to the 5W
    infographic: https://reliefweb.int/node/4227424

Humanitarian Response by Sector

        Food Security

   Since late June 2026, more than 30 members of the Food Security and Livelihoods Cluster have
    provided food assistance to over 338,000 people affected by the earthquakes. Assistance has been
    delivered in 58 parishes across the affected municipalities, representing 29 per cent of the sector's
    target of 1.2 million people.
   To date, partners have distributed more than 69,000 family food baskets and food baskets for meal
    preparation, 161,000 ready-to-eat food baskets, over 1.698 million hot meals and more than 12,000
    cash transfers.
   Gaps in response coverage persist in seven parishes in Distrito Capital, as well as in 13
    municipalities across the states of Aragua, Carabobo, Falcón, Miranda and Yaracuy. In some areas,
    coverage remains absent, underscoring the need to strengthen and scale up assistance efforts.
   A reduction in the provision of hot meals at spontaneous accommodation sites has been observed.
    This may leave vulnerable people without assistance, increase food insecurity and contribute to the
    adoption of negative coping strategies.
   WFP and its partners has reached more than 300,000 affected people across the seven priority
    states through hot meals, ready-to-eat rations, general food assistance, support to community
    kitchens and market-based assistance. The response continues to adapt to evolving needs,
    available resources and national priorities, with a gradual transition away from temporary shelter-
    based assistance and increased focus on targeted household-level support in affected communities.
   Between 14 and 25 August, WFP completed the first cycle of general food assistance in Carabobo,
    Falcón and Yaracuy, while second-cycle distributions continued in La Guaira, Distrito Capital and
    Miranda. During the reporting period, 83,000 people have been reached with more than 1,000 mt of
    food, covering household needs for one month. WFP is also preparing a new round of electronic
    voucher assistance in Naiguatá.
   As population movements continue and temporary sites progressively close, WFP is supporting the
    transition of food assistance to national institutions in two UN-managed transitional camps: César
    Nieves and José María Vargas. WFP will continue coordinating with and supporting the authorities,
    to ensure an orderly handover and to prevent gaps during the transition.




United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA)
www.unocha.org
OCHA | 3

   WFP continues to strengthen evidence generation, monitoring and accountability to affected
    populations. Monitoring findings continued to show high levels of satisfaction with the assistance,
    with 99 percent of interviewed beneficiaries reporting satisfaction with the support received, including
    its quality, usefulness and quantity. Monitoring also confirmed that assistance helped households
    meet priority food needs and free up income for other essential expenses, while identifying areas for
    follow-up including communication on feedback channels and inclusion measures at distribution
    sites. The active Community Feedback Mechanism received 462 cases between 11 and 16 August,
    mainly from La Guaira and Distrito Capital - nearly all cases were resolved during the reporting
    period. Most feedback concerned requests for assistance, followed by positive feedback, information
    requests on entitlements, complaints, and suggestions to improve support in transit sites.
   WFP is also contributing to recovery planning through the Government-led Post-Disaster Needs
    Assessment, working alongside national counterparts, FAO, UNICEF, the World Bank and other
    partners on food security, food systems and livelihoods-related analysis.

       Education

    As co-leads of the Education Cluster, UNICEF and Save the Children strengthened coordination,
     information management, partner mapping, monitoring systems, and engagement with education
     authorities to support preparedness and earthquake response efforts across the Capital District, La
     Guaira, and Miranda.
    The Education Cluster coordinated the response of 10 partner organizations, ensuring
     complementary interventions and operational support across four affected municipalities:
     Libertador, Vargas, Baruta, and Sucre.
    Education Cluster partners reached 7,718 people through assessments and education activities,
     including 6,541 children and adolescents (0-19 years), 330 education personnel, and 847
     community members.
    Coordinated activities focused on socio-emotional learning, learning recovery, and intersectoral
     support, contributing to the continuity of education and wellbeing services for children and
     adolescents affected by the earthquakes. The highest number of people reached was recorded in
     La Guaira (3,649) and the Capital District (3,599).
    Partners distributed 5,156 education and recreational kits to children and adolescents, helping to
     establish safer and more supportive learning and wellbeing environments in affected communities.
    UNICEF provided technical support for the design and delivery of cascade trainings on Education
     in Emergencies (EiE), psychosocial support, educational and wellbeing spaces, and safe return-to-
     learning approaches. The Cluster also continued to strengthen preparedness measures ahead of
     the 2026-2027 school year.


     Health

    Health Cluster partners continue to scale up the health response in affected areas. As of 26 August,
     44 organisations had implemented activities through 59 service delivery points across five
     municipalities in three states, deploying 1,651 health professionals. Of this workforce, 32.9 per cent
     provide services through mobile units, 31.5 per cent through outreach modalities, 21.9 per cent
     through facility-based services and 12.3 per cent through payment-for-service schemes. In addition,
     the capacities of 22 health facilities have been strengthened through coordinated efforts.
    Over the past month, the response has been concentrated primarily in the Capital District, Miranda
     and La Guaira, reaching a total of 67,604 people (34,112 women, 22,936 men, 6,256 girls, 5,657
     boys and 414 persons with disabilities).
    In addition, Sexual and Reproductive Health (SRH) activities reached 3,065 people through
     awareness-raising initiatives. As part of the response, 1,981 people received condoms and 1,240
     information, education and communication (IEC) materials were distributed. Antenatal care was
     provided to 199 pregnant women, 2,276 women received contraceptive methods, and 347 HIV and
     syphilis tests were conducted.




United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA)
www.unocha.org
OCHA | 4

     Coverage gaps persist in remote, isolated and hard-to-reach communities, affecting primary health
      care, referral pathways, patient transportation, specialised services, rehabilitation and continuity of
      care.
     Key challenges include limited access to health services among affected populations and host
      communities, as well as the insufficient availability of internal medicine, physiotherapy and other
      specialised medical services.
     A joint coordination assessment identified operational challenges affecting the health response in
      four key areas: coordination, health networks and facilities, response in temporary camps and
      community engagement.
     Key findings highlight the need to strengthen coordination between institutional and humanitarian
      actors to implement standardised protocols for joint action; increase the availability of standardised
      essential services, unified care pathways and clinical follow-up mechanisms to improve the quality
      and continuity of care; reinforce integration between mobile and fixed teams to avoid disruptions in
      service delivery; and strengthen monitoring in states receiving displaced populations.

    Logistics and Telecommunications
     The Logistics Working Group (LWG), led by WFP, continues to provide free common logistics
       services to humanitarian organizations to facilitate the emergency response following the seismic
       events in the country. Since 24 June, the LWG has transported 6,550 m³ of humanitarian supplies
       through 78 shipments and provided storage for 367.3 MT of relief items in La Guaira for 16
       organizations.
     Since the onset of the emergency, at least 62 flights carrying 1,948 metric tons (MT) of humanitarian
       assistance have arrived in the country, with relief supplies received by 34 organizations.
     Based on information provided by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, updates were shared regarding
       current import protocols for medicines and medical supplies not intended for Ministry of Health
       programs, items entering under temporary admission regimes and specially regulated or dual-use
       goods.
     In the telecommunications sector, in coordination with the National Telecommunications
       Commission (CONATEL), internet service provider G-Network, and the Government of Luxembourg,
       emergency connectivity and battery-charging kiosks continue to be provided at transitional camps in
       La Guaira (Caraballeda, César Nieves, and the José María Vargas Sports Complex), benefiting over
       20,900 registered users since the start of the operation. Currently, the demobilization and transition
       of the emergency telecommunications services deployed at the César Nieves and José María
       Vargas Sports Complex temporary camps are being planned, following confirmation that primary
       services have been restored in the area.
     At the request of the Ministry of Health, the Telecommunications sector, jointly with WFP and PAHO,
       completed a multi-functional assessment of 10 Comprehensive Community Health Areas (ASIC) in
       La Guaira to identify gaps and opportunities to improve storage, infrastructure, power supply,
       connectivity, and data platforms, ultimately strengthening the local healthcare network.

.    Nutrition
     To date, humanitarian nutrition interventions have reached 15,225 people through specialized
      services. These include screening for acute malnutrition, treatment for severe wasting, infant feeding
      counselling for caregivers, and iron supplementation for pregnant women. Thanks to the
      collaboration of 14 organizations, these activities have been successfully implemented across 14
      municipalities in six states.
     UNICEF and its partners launched World Breastfeeding Week activities reaching more than 314
      mothers, caregivers, and health personnel nationwide. Concurrently, efforts were led to establish
      five breastfeeding-friendly spaces in transitional camps to support infant and young child feeding
      practices.
     In partnership with Action Against Hunger, UNICEF launched nutrition interventions at the Mare
      Abajo transitional camp and scaled up response efforts through Integrated Health and Nutrition
      Brigades. Simultaneously, in Carabobo state, UNICEF supported nutrition and health facility
      assessments to identify priority gaps and inform future capacity-strengthening efforts.




United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA)
www.unocha.org
OCHA | 5




    Protection (including Child Protection and Gender-Based Violence)
   The Protection Cluster, the Child Protection and Gender-Based Violence Areas of Responsibility,
    together with 39 partner organizations, reached 22,957 people in 32 transitional camps: La Guaira
    (16), Capital District (13), and Miranda (3).
   Since the onset of the earthquake response, 69 per cent of the people assisted are women, of which
    64 per cent are adult women, 28 per cent are girls and adolescents, and 8 per cent are older women.
    Men account for 31 per cent of those reached, of which 41 per cent are adult men, 53 per cent are
    boys and adolescents, and 6 per cent are older men.
   Among those reached, 58 per cent accessed psychosocial and socio-emotional support activities,
    helping restore daily routines and strengthen emotional coping and grief management; 22 per cent
    received specialized protection services, including case management support, legal counseling and
    assistance, and individual protection assistance, including the distribution of essential protection
    items and kits. Additionally, 19 per cent participated in information sessions and received targeted
    guidance on protection risks.
   During the earthquake response, Gender-Based Violence (GBV) prevention and response
    interventions reached 5,399 people (89 per cent women and 11 men). Of the total population
    reached, 3,501 people participated in awareness-raising and capacity-building sessions focused on
    GBV prevention, including topics such as positive masculinities and sexual and reproductive rights.
    In addition, 1,898 survivors accessed multisectoral response services, including case management,
    legal counseling, essential protection items, and psychosocial support. Additionally, 26 personnel
    from national institutions strengthened their capacities in GBV prevention and response.
   UNFPA delivered 1,211 dignity kits, provided psychosocial support and psychological first aid to 145
    people, managed 61 cases, and supported 6 individuals with legal counseling.
   Since the onset of the earthquake response, 3,088 girls and 2,917 boys have participated in mental
    health and psychosocial support activities, while 3,597 caregivers of children and adolescents
    benefited from these interventions, contributing to the restoration of daily routines and supporting
    emotional and grief management.
   Furthermore, 1,390 girls and adolescents and 1,514 boys and adolescents participated in activities
    conducted in eight child-friendly spaces in La Guaira, the Capital District, and Miranda. These spaces
    were supported by UNICEF-FUNDAINIL, Save the Children, Fundación Ayuda en Acción,
    Construyendo Futuros, HIAS, and World Vision, promoting children’s well-being and facilitating safe
    referrals to specialized services.
   Additionally, 274 children and adolescents accessed specialized child protection services, including
    case management support, legal guidance and assistance, and family tracing and reunification.
   These interventions were implemented by 28 Child Protection Area of Responsibility (AoR) partner
    organizations in the states of La Guaira, Capital District, Miranda, and Falcón, as well as in states
    hosting displaced populations, including Sucre, Zulia, and Apure.
   UNICEF and partners strengthened community-based protection mechanisms through awareness-
    raising and capacity building initiatives, alongside joint GBV prevention efforts with UNFPA in
    transitional camps to foster safer environments for children and adolescents.
   Partner assessments highlight critical protection gaps within transitional camps, primarily driven by
    a weakened child protection environment, diminished caregiving capacities, and the deteriorating
    emotional well-being of the affected population. Identified gaps include inadequate child supervision,
    caregiver overburden, and the need for enhanced safeguarding measures.
   Displaced population faces acute fear, anxiety, stress, grief and uncertainty stemming from the
    emergency’s aftermath, ongoing relocation processes, and challenging living conditions. Systemic
    challenges persist regarding equitable access to information and essential services, which
    exacerbate the risks of discrimination, GBV, family separation, and exploitation and abuse.
   There is an urgent requirement to scale up psychosocial support, expand safe spaces, reinforce
    child protection interventions, ensure accountability to affected populations, and strengthen
    confidential orientation and referral pathways.




United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA)
www.unocha.org
OCHA | 6



       Shelter, Land and Settlements

   To date, partners of the Shelter, Land and Settlements Coordination Cluster have reached 46,877
    people affected by the earthquakes, including 13,285 children and adolescents, 26,981 adults, and
    6,611 older persons.
   During the reporting period, the response primarily focused on the provision of essential household
    items, complemented by in-kind assistance and improvements to transitional camps aimed at
    strengthening the living conditions of affected families. These activities were implemented by various
    partners, including IOM, CESVI, DRC, AH&H, and M4H.
   In August, partners reported assisting 10,670 people through the distribution of essential household
    items, while 134 individuals benefited from improvements to transitional camp infrastructure. These
    interventions contributed to addressing priority needs in both collective shelters and earthquake-
    affected communities.
   IOM continued to lead the management and operational coordination of transitional camps in La
    Guaira, including the José María Vargas Sports Complex, as well as the co-management of the
    César Nieves and Mare Abajo II camps in collaboration with NRC.
   During the reporting period, IOM strengthened camp management mechanisms through the
    updating of population records, the conduct of needs assessments, and the continuous monitoring
    of shelter conditions. Following heavy rainfall in the area, IOM also promoted recovery and mitigation
    activities aimed at restoring affected spaces and reducing risks for the displaced population.
   In parallel, cluster partners continued supporting the recovery of shelter conditions through the
    provision of essential items and targeted infrastructure improvements. CESVI, DRC, M4H, and IOM
    contributed to the delivery of essential household items for affected households, while AH&H and
    DRC reported interventions focused on the improvement and rehabilitation of transitional camps.
   Additionally, IOM continued the distribution of non-food items in earthquake-affected rural
    communities in Yaracuy and Carabobo, expanding the geographical reach of the response beyond
    the main transitional camps.

       Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH)

   As of 25 August, WASH Cluster partners had reached 218,793 people (54.2 per cent women and
    girls) across 23 municipalities in eight states (Aragua, Miranda, La Guaira, Capital District, Carabobo,
    Yaracuy, Falcón and Sucre) through interventions implemented by 35 organizations.
   The response included the emergency provision, storage, and treatment of safe water at both the
    household and community levels. To mitigate sanitary risks, partners also distributed hygiene kits,
    menstrual hygiene materials, and essential replenishment supplies.
   Social institutions, including health facilities, schools, collective centres, and transitional camps,
    received critical support through cleaning and Infection Prevention and Control (IPC) standards,
    alongside the restoration of functional safe water supply and waste management systems.
   UNICEF reached 16,661 people with safe drinking water and provided 8,564 individuals with
    essential WASH supplies in earthquake-affected areas.
   Through Action Against Hunger and CISP, integrated WASH services were maintained in UN-
    supported transitional camps, ensuring sustained access to safe water, sanitation facilities, and
    hygiene promotion activities. Access to safe water was also expanded to an additional 7,000 people
    in Mare Abajo through a partnership with Action Against Hunger.
   At the Mare Abajo and Campo de Golf transitional camps, All Hands & Hearts strengthened WASH
    infrastructure by constructing a laundry facility equipped for six washing machines and greywater
    management. AH&H also distributed 146 community water filters, installed ten 900-litre water tanks,
    and delivered hygiene kits and diapers for people with specific needs.
   HEKS enhanced WASH and IPC protocols for medical personnel and at the Naiguatá Emergency
    Hospital and the Anare outpatient clinic.
   International Medical Corps (IMC) delivered 240,000 litres of safe water via trucking to earthquake-
    affected communities in La Guaira.




United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA)
www.unocha.org
OCHA | 7

   Concurrently, IOM strengthened water access by installing storage tanks at the Campo de Golf
    transitional camp.
   To enhance safe water handling, IOM also distributed hygiene kits and non-food items, including
    water filter buckets and collapsible jerrycans with lids, to earthquakes affected communities across
    Carabobo, the Capital District, La Guaira, Miranda and Yaracuy.
   CONVITE distributed specialized water treatment kits at Km 23 of El Junquito, Capital District, to
    improve drinking water quality and reduce overall health risks.
Situation by state
Capital District (Caracas) and Miranda
  On 25 August, a meeting was held with the Secretary-General of the Government of Caracas to
     advance coordination efforts in the context of the earthquake and heavy rains that affected Libertador
     municipality. The humanitarian architecture deployed in Venezuela and OCHA’s role were
     presented. In addition, the Shelter, Housing and Settlements Cluster and the Logistics Working
     Group outlined the actions they are undertaking in the current context. Experiences from response
     implementation in Miranda and La Guaira were also shared. Authorities agreed to present a proposal
     identifying priority areas for joint and complementary action.
  On 21 August, frontline personnel working in temporary camps in Plaza municipality, Miranda state,
     received training on nutrition, health, water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH), and food security, in
     coordination with state and municipal authorities.

La Guaira
   On 20 August, the La Guaira Local Coordination Forum convened to discuss good practices and
     lessons learned in the context of the earthquake response. OCHA also facilitated a practical session
     on respectful audiovisual documentation.

Falcón
   Families voluntarily displaced from earthquake-affected areas have arrived in the municipalities of
     Miranda, Colina, Falcón and Zamora, where they are staying with relatives. Temporary returns to
     their states of origin have also been observed for housing registration processes. In coordination
     with the State Government and OCHA, the Local Coordination Forum developed a six-month
     intervention plan covering health, nutrition, water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH), education and
     food security. Partners including Action Against Hunger, WFP, UNICEF, ACTED and Centroccidente
     are leading activities such as hygiene kit distributions, food assistance to 803 households in
     Cayumar, support to water treatment plants, and training for public officials on psychological first aid
     and gender-based violence (GBV).


Other states

   Lara: Organizations such as FUNDASE, Tejiendo Redes, Proyecto Esperanza, Cáritas, and UCLA
    have deployed comprehensive medical outreach activities and psychosocial support services.
    Strengthening coordination with additional stakeholders is necessary to enhance the response
    capacity.
   Trujillo: 314 individuals (102 families) from La Guaira and the Capital District have been identified,
    accommodated under the "solidarity shelter" modality in the homes of relatives or friends across 14
    municipalities, particularly in Valera, Trujillo, San Rafael de Carvajal, Escuque, Sucre, and Bolívar.
    The local response is supported by organizations such as Azul Positivo, ODISEF, community
    volunteers, and the University of Los Andes (NURR-ULA), which provide nutritional assistance and
    mental health support.
   Zulia: The cumulative number of displaced persons remains at approximately 494 individuals,
    currently staying with relatives in municipalities including Maracaibo, San Francisco, Mara, and
    Guajira, among others. The humanitarian response is led by partners such as Azul Positivo,
    ASONACOP, ODISEF, UNHCR, IOM, DRC, and NRC, with activities focused on child protection,
    GBV prevention, and livelihood recovery.




United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA)
www.unocha.org
OCHA | 8



Humanitarian coordination
   OCHA, together with the Humanitarian Coordinator and in coordination with national authorities,
    continues to coordinate the humanitarian response with the United Nations and partner
    organizations, prioritizing actions in health, shelter, food security, water, sanitation and hygiene,
    logistics and protection.
   Since 25 June, United Nations entities have facilitated the deployment of 212 international staff
    members and specialists from more than 30 nationalities to support response and early recovery
    operations. Their technical expertise covers humanitarian coordination, health, logistics, protection,
    food security, early recovery, infrastructure and damage assessment. Most personnel entered the
    country through the airports of Valencia and Barcelona, supported by special entry facilitation
    mechanisms coordinated with the Venezuelan authorities.
   According to official information from the Ministry of People's Power for Foreign Affairs and
    International Trade, as of 10 August, 108 international donations had been registered from 42
    countries, organisations and cooperation entities, amounting to approximately 4,404 metric tons of
    humanitarian assistance. The main contributors in terms of volume were Mexico, Colombia,
    Panama, and Trinidad and Tobago. Assistance included medical supplies, food, water and hygiene
    items, equipment for temporary shelters and other essential humanitarian relief items.
   The humanitarian community encourages donor partners to coordinate any in-kind donations
    prior to shipment. Unsolicited contributions that do not respond to identified needs may create
    congestion at ports and airports, increase logistical costs and delay the delivery of priority relief
    items. Whenever possible, support should be aligned with the priorities of the Humanitarian
    Response Plan (HRP) and coordinated with designated recipient organizations. Donor partners are
    encouraged to consult the general guidelines on the management of unsolicited bilateral
    donations for further information.
   A private sector contributions tracker for the Venezuela earthquake response is available at
    https://ven-eq.connectingbusiness.org, together with an information note outlining opportunities for
    private sector support. Private sector focal point: elisa.trujilloleyva@un.org.

Humanitarian Financing
   A dedicated Venezuela dashboard is available on OCHA’s Financial Tracking Service (FTS),
    providing information on funding for both the humanitarian response and the earthquake emergency
    response: https://fts.unocha.org/viz/venezuela. The platform supports the monitoring and analysis
    of resources mobilized for the response.
   UN Under-Secretary-General for Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator, Tom
    Fletcher, announced an addendum to the Humanitarian Response Plan (HRP) for Venezuela. The
    appeal addresses the multisectoral needs of 1.3 million people over the next six months,
    increasing the response target to 6.2 million people. An additional US$299 million is required
    to support these efforts, bringing the total 2026 HRP requirement from US$632 million to
    US$931 million.
   As of 27 August, US$483.2 million has been mobilized for the humanitarian response in the
    country. Of the total, US$401. million has been mobilized for the HRP, representing 43.1 per
    cent of the funding required. An additional US$82.1 million has been received outside the Plan.
   Since the onset of the emergency, the Venezuela Humanitarian Fund (VHF) has received
    contributions totalling US$107.75 million, including US$100 million from the United States, US$5.1
    million from Germany, US$1.3 million from Spain, US$1.25 million from the Republic of Korea and
    US$0.1 million from Romania, to strengthen the humanitarian response in the country. In addition,
    other donor partners accelerated the disbursement of previously committed resources to scale up
    the response through the Fund, including the European Union (US$2 million), Ireland (US$1.1
    million) and Canada (US$0.7 million). Furthermore, Greece, San Marino and UN colleagues in
    Geneva pledged additional contributions to support the response through the Fund.
   The Central Emergency Response Fund (CERF) allocated US$15 million for a multisectoral
    response, complementing the Venezuela Humanitarian Fund (VHF).




United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA)
www.unocha.org
OCHA | 9

   Several United Nations agencies, funds and programmes have launched emergency appeals to
    expand humanitarian assistance and support response and recovery efforts following the
    earthquakes, in line with the HRP addendum.


           NOTE

           The report will be published every two weeks. We thank partner organizations, United
           Nations entities and donors for their valuable contributions, and encourage them to continue
           reporting their earthquake response activities through the 345W platform. For more
           information on reporting and the use of the tool, please refer to the presentation: 345W
           Preparedness and Response.




        Support the humanitarian response to address the earthquake in Venezuela
        Make your donation safely and quickly now:
        https://crisisrelief.un.org/en/donate-venezuela-crisis



        Contact information
        For more information, please contact the OCHA Venezuela Office:

        Vanessa May – Head of Office – mayv@un.org
        Alfonso Zabaleta – Humanitarian Affairs Officer – alfonso.zabaleta@un.org
        Jennifer Moreno – Public Information Officer – moreno7@un.org




United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA)
www.unocha.org
